My name is Chris Rogers and
Michael Hopkins and I are going
to show you how to make an effect
Audio Unit and a really nice
Cocoa view to go along with it.
But first,
for those of you who don't really
know what Audio Units are about,
and for those who do, it won't take long,
I'm going to take a brief tour
through what an Audio Unit is.
So, an Audio Unit is a plug-in
specification for OS X.
It's packaged as a component,
and as such,
an Audio Unit host would use a
component manager to discover the
component's Audio Units available
on the system and load them up.
Why should you write an Audio Unit?
Well, first of all,
it's a specification that's supported
by all the top audio applications,
or most of them,
and quite a large number of
other interesting applications.
So if your application isn't listed here,
your favorite application,
then don't be offended.
There are quite a lot of
really cool ones out there.
And it adds value to your technology.
If you have a look at any of the
audio forums out there on the web,
you'll see that musicians
who use OS X are really,
really hungry for new plug-ins
to run in their Audio Unit hosts.
So they know all about Audio Units
and they want people to write them.
So it's a good money-making possibility,
too.
So there are a variety of
different types of Audio Units,
and the type that we're going to
concentrate on today is the effect type.
But there are a number
of other different types,
and we'll take a quick walk
through those different types.
So the effect type, first of all,
just takes audio input,
processes it in some way.
Example is a reverb for
simulating a concert hall,
graphic EQ for changing
frequencies around bass and treble.
Instruments are for
simulating synthesizers,
software synthesizers.
Couple different examples there.
A new type of Audio Unit in Tiger is
a generator that takes no input,
but it just produces output.
And we ship a couple of those in Tiger,
the file player and AUNet receive, which,
along with AUNet send,
is able to stream high-quality
audio across the network.
There's another type, Mixer, which,
as its name implies,
it just takes a bunch of audio
streams and mixes in some way.
And there are a couple different
types that we support on Tiger.
The 3D Mixer is, for example,
used as a basis of our
Open AL implementation,
which Bob Aaron is going to talk
about in a later presentation.
Output Unit is used to
talk to audio hardware,
so it would be the final stage
in a graph of these Audio Units
that are chained together.
Format Converter can do things
like sample rate conversion,
bit depth conversion, or time stretching,
that type of operation.
And finally, Offline Unit will process
audio in a non-linear manner,
perhaps even backwards,
like an Audio Unit that would
take a file and reverse it.
So, why don't we actually see
what an Audio Unit looks
like running in a demo here.
So, could we switch to the demo machine,
please?
I'm going to be using the
AU Lab hosting application,
which actually ships on your system.
You should have it installed there.
I'm going to launch a
document that I made--oops.
Wrong icon.
This is the AU Lab document.
Okay.
So what we see here is
three separate windows.
There's a mixer window here.
Here I have a window which is the
user interface to the file player,
which I mentioned before.
And right here, we have a generic view
on a filter effect,
which is actually what we're going
to be taking you through today,
showing you how to build this
resonant low-pass filter.
And this is--this right here
is just a basic user interface.
It's called a generic view.
And the generic view is able to--to, um,
To work with any effect Audio Unit.
So even if you don't write a custom UI,
the system is capable of
bringing up a generic view.
So why don't I play a loop
here and I'll just play with
the filter for a little while.
Sweep the cutoff frequency.
Okay.
Also, we can add another effect.
If you click over here,
it brings up a pop-up menu of all
of the different effect Audio Units
that are installed on the system.
So I'm going to add a reverb
here just really quickly.
That's also a generic view.
You see that the reverb has more
parameters than the filter does.
So, that's pretty simple.
The user interface for our filter,
though, it's a little bit boring,
so maybe we can do something
more interesting than that.
We'll see a little bit later.
Mike will show us how
to make a custom view.
Can we go back to slides, please?
So, I'd like to take a little
bit more of a step back,
look more abstractly at how
hosts deal with Audio Units.
So, off to the left we see
the AU Lab mixer window,
but this could represent
any host application.
When I chose the reverb,
I added a reverb effect from a list
of Audio Units in a pop-up menu.
What the host does at
that time is it will
It will open the component,
the Audio Unit component,
using the Component Manager and then
call Audio Unit Initialize on it in
order to initialize the Audio Unit.
It will then typically,
in a hosting application,
bring up a window for the user interface.
And in this case,
it's showing the generic
view that we just saw.
But if the Audio Unit supports
a custom view,
then the host will instantiate the
custom view in the window instead.
And the way that the host knows
if the Audio Unit supports a
custom view is by asking it.
And we'll see exactly how it
does that in a little while.
The host gives a reference
to the Audio Unit,
or a reference to the view.
It gives it a link to the Audio Unit so
that the viewer is able to communicate
with the Audio Unit to display
its parameters and manipulate
the Audio Unit in various ways.
Another type of Audio Unit that
I talked about briefly was the
Instrument Software Synthesizer.
So if you're a musician,
you could be playing on a MIDI keyboard
and those MIDI events that you're
playing on the keyboard would
go through the Core MIDI system.
The host would receive those
Core MIDI events and dispatch
them to the instrument.
A mixer audio unit could be used as
a basis of a mixing engine in a host,
which it is, in fact, in AU Lab.
And then the output of that mixer
is sent to the output unit and
then on to the Core Audio HAL,
down through the drivers and
to the audio device itself.
So a component is packaged
as a bundle on OS X.
An audio unit is a component.
So it has a .component extension.
And in the finder,
it just appears as a simple file.
But it's actually a directory.
And inside of there,
there are several files which are
kind of interesting to look at.
And many of these files are the
same for any type of bundle.
Some are specific to audio units.
The Info.plist file contains
the bundle identifier and
version number of the bundle,
some other information.
Inside of the Mac OS directory
is the executable,
where the code of the audio unit lives.
Inside of the resources folder,
if there's a custom view,
the view can go there.
And we see there,
Cocoa Filter View Bundle.
There's some localized resources.
And in the .rsrc file,
there's some component information,
such as a component type, subtype,
manufacturer, component name,
and that type of thing.
The audio unit, once it's built,
it must be installed in
a particular location.
And there are two main
places that that could go,
either in the ~/library or /library.
And the only difference is
that in the ~/library location,
the audio unit will only be
visible to that particular user.
So if you have multiple users on the
machine and somebody else logs in,
they won't see the audio unit.
If you install it in a /library location,
then it will be visible system-wide
no matter which user is logged on.
So as a step in developing
your Audio Unit,
it's really important to
validate that it works correctly.
In the past,
digital audio workstation applications
have had tremendous problems
with plugins crashing the system,
really unstable plugins.
And if you load up 10 or 15
various plugins into a hosting
application and one of them crashes,
it's difficult to even know which
one is crashing the system sometimes.
It can be quite difficult.
So we've put some effort into developing
a command line tool called AUVAL,
which will put your Audio Unit through
kind of a torture test and really
make sure that it will work
robustly in your host application.
And we'll be using this command
line tool in a little while to
actually see how we can validate
the filter Audio Unit that I demoed.
So, covered a bit of background
about Audio Units in general.
Why don't we see if we can move
on to actual code and looking at
methods and that type of thing.
Before we do that,
we would have to set up a project,
an Xcode.
Easiest way to do that is just
say "New Project" and then there's
an Audio Unit template available
so you can choose that your new
project is going to be an Audio Unit.
Or, Audio Unit with a view,
either Carbon or Cocoa.
It will set up your project with
all of the relevant source files so
you can just essentially build and
you'll have a working Audio Unit.
It doesn't do very much, but it works.
Before you build though,
there are a couple things
that you'll need to configure.
In the resource file,
you'll need to set your component,
subtype, manufacturer, and name.
And I'll show you how to do
that in Xcode in a few minutes.
And also, you'll need to configure
the Info.plist file so that
the bundle identifier has
your company name in there.
And some of you may be wondering, well,
what are the implications about building
an Audio Unit on the Intel platform?
Essentially, it just works.
If you use our SDK-based
classes and support files,
It will do all the right
things and build it for you.
At Apple,
when we were working on porting our
Audio Units over to the Intel platform,
we had to change, I think,
one line in a resource file or something
like that to make this all work.
So you'll be able to get this
up and running pretty quickly.
So what kind of custom
code do you need to write?
I mean, if we have all these
base classes and stuff,
does most of the work,
but you still are going to have
to implement some custom code,
of course.
And the custom code mainly revolves
around dealing with parameters,
properties, and signal processing.
And I'll talk about each
of those in some detail.
This is what the base
class hierarchy looks like.
And we're mainly interested in
subclassing two of these classes,
the AU kernel base and
the AU effect base.
This is what the base
class hierarchy looks like.
And we're mainly interested in
subclassing two of these classes,
the AU kernel base and
the AU effect base.
So getting into more
detail with AU Effect Base,
when you subclass that,
You're overriding methods for parameters,
properties, and factory presets,
potentially.
And what AU Effect Base does is
it instantiates several instances
of your AU Kernel Base subclass.
So AU Effect Base assumes that it's
doing end-to-end channel processing.
So, for example,
two channels are two channels, stereo in,
stereo out, or one-to-one, mono in,
mono out.
If your Audio Unit is not like that,
such as maybe a stereoizer effect,
it's mono in, stereo out,
then you wouldn't want
to use AU Effect Base.
You would subclass AU Base instead.
In AU Kernel Base,
this is where you put your actual DSP,
your signal processing code.
And as I said,
AU Effect Base instantiates N different
instances of your A kernel base subclass,
one per channel.
So I mentioned parameters in passing.
What parameters do is provide
real-time control on the processing.
They're floating point values.
They have a name, unit type, min, max,
default value, flags.
And some examples are filter cutoff,
like we saw in the low
pass filter that I demoed.
And since that's a frequency,
it's a cutoff frequency,
it would have a unit type of hertz.
If you had a delay effect,
the delay time parameter would probably
be unit type of milliseconds or seconds.
To define a parameter,
you need to override the
get parameter info method in
your AU Effect Base subclass.
And in there,
what you do is you define the name,
the unit type, the min, max,
default value, and flags.
In addition to that,
in the constructor to your
subclass to AU Effect Base,
you'll need to call set parameter
for each of your parameters.
And this has dual purpose.
First of all, it defines the parameter.
And second of all,
it gives it the initial value.
Properties are a very versatile way
of getting information back and forth
between audio unit and host or view.
There are a bunch of required properties
that are implemented by the base classes,
so you don't have to worry too
much about implementing those.
Those are handled in
AU_Base and AU_EffectBase.
But you're able to define custom
properties for passing arbitrary
information back and forth between
your audio unit and your custom view.
And we'll do exactly that in a minute.
To define a property,
there are two methods that
you'll need to subclass:
GetPropertyInfo and GetProperty.
They're both methods of AU effect base.
So I want to talk a little bit about
rendering because it's actually kind
of at the crux of what Audio Units do.
In a typical scenario,
rendering occurs on a
continuous stream of audio,
continuous uninterrupted stream of audio.
And what the host does is call
Audio Unit Render successively,
time after time, multiple times,
to process slices of that audio stream.
So when the host calls Audio Unit Render,
it provides a number of
sample frames to process.
So it may ask the Audio Unit to
render 512 sample frames.
And then it will call the
Audio Unit again and ask
to render the next 512,
and so on.
But you shouldn't assume that it's
going to be 512 or any particular value,
or that the number is going to
be the same from call to call.
That's for the host to decide.
And the Audio Unit is required
to render exactly the number
that the host asks for.
Also, the host is going to be
calling Audio Unit Render in
a particular thread context.
That may be in a real-time thread
talking to an audio device,
or it may be in a
secondary feeder thread,
or it may be in an offline context,
just processing a file.
As an Audio Unit,
you are completely unaware of what
thread context you're running in.
And you shouldn't make any assumptions
about the thread that you are running in.
Your job really is just to render the
audio and put the results into the audio
buffer list that the host gives you.
And for effects,
what happens is the Audio Unit,
first of all, gets its input,
it pulls its input, and processes it,
and then writes the output
into the audio buffer list.
Now, I said that processing occurs
on a continuous stream of
audio in a typical scenario.
But what happens if the stream
is interrupted for some reason?
And a case where that might be true
is in a digital audio workstation.
You have a timeline change.
You're playing along,
and all of a sudden,
the user moves the timeline to
maybe the start of the track.
Well, that's an interruption in
the continuity of the stream.
So in that case,
the host is expected to call
Audio Unit Reset on the Audio Unit,
muting or unmuting a track in
a digital audio workstation.
That's another example.
So when the host calls Audio Unit Render,
your process method is called.
And process is a method of
your AU kernel base subclass.
That's where you do the
interesting signal processing,
your specialized code that
makes your Audio Unit special,
gives it that really distinctive sound.
Your reset method gets called when
the host calls Audio Unit Reset.
That's where the continuity of the
audio stream is being broken and you're
expected to reset your filter state.
If you're a reverb,
clear out all of your delay buffers
and all that type of stuff so you don't
have this giant reverb tail that keeps
playing out even though you're playing
at a different part of the timeline.
Factory presets are something
that you can decide to put in
your Audio Unit if you want.
And it's basically a set of parameter
values that are useful to the user.
So for example, in a reverb,
there might be a set of parameters
that make up a cathedral setting or
a large room or something like that.
And we're going to make a couple
factory presets in the filter.
In order to do that,
there are basically two methods
that you're going to need to
override in AU Effect Base.
The Get Presets method is what gets
called when the host is interested in
determining what presets are available,
what factory presets are available.
So you give it a list of those.
That's a CF over ARAF.
And there's the new
factory preset set method,
which gets called when the host decides
to set a particular preset on you.
So I'd like to go to the demo machine,
please, and actually show you
in Xcode some of this
Now, even though you may have
this code on your machine,
you may be looking at it,
it probably isn't really very efficient
for you to follow along as I move
quickly through the different files here.
But we can-- we can look at all of this
in more detail in the lab tomorrow,
if any of you have additional
questions or if you have,
like, some particularly difficult things
that you need to do with audio
units that we don't cover today.
The first thing that you should do
when you create a new project using the
Audio Unit Template is configure some
basic information about your component.
Now this is FilterVersion.h.
And we need to give the component a
unique identifier so that it can be
uniquely identified as being different
from other Audio Units on the system.
And the way the Component Manager does
that is through ComponentType,
SubType, and Manufacturer.
The type is already
determined for an effect.
It's a four-character code,
which is AUFX.
The subtype, we're free to choose.
And for the purposes of this project,
we'll call the type FILT,
all capital letters.
And you need to choose a
four-character code that has at
least one uppercase character,
because four-character codes
with lowercase characters
are reserved for Apple's use.
After making the subtype,
you should define a four-character
code for your company.
And it has to be a unique
four-character code,
and it's recommended that you register
your company's four-character code with
Apple if you don't already have one.
Aside from the subtype of manufacturer,
the Audio Unit has a name.
So when we were in AU Lab and we looked
in the pop-up menu of available effects,
it gave a list of names.
So you should, first of all,
put your company name here, colon,
and then make up a name
for your Audio Unit.
We're going to call this Filter.
Pretty boring name,
but I'm sure that you guys
have some much more interesting
effects that you can show us.
After that, in the targets,
If you look at the information
for the target and you go
to the properties setting,
there's an identifier here and it says
com.apple_demo_audiounit.filter_demo.
And what you need to do is make that
say com.yourcompany_name.audiounit.
Your Audio Unit Name.
So instead of Filter Demo,
it would be Migrate Reverb or whatever.
[Transcript missing]
Your Audio Unit Name.
So instead of Filter Demo,
it would be Migrate Reverb or whatever.
This is a method of AU Effect Base and
Filter is our subclass of that.
And we're defining two parameters,
cutoff frequency and resonance.
We're giving a name.
And this is a constant here,
which is a CFStringRef.
So you can localize this to a
particular language if you want.
We do the same for resonance.
We give it a unit type of hertz, minimum,
maximum, default value, and some flags.
Since we're publishing this
parameter as having units of hertz,
we also give it a flag telling
it to display logarithmic.
So in the generic view,
when it creates a slider
for changing this parameter,
it will be on a log scale,
which is how we want
to control frequency.
So similarly,
we set up all this information
for the resonance parameter.
So it's just a single method here that
we have to worry about for parameters.
And also, in the constructor,
as I mentioned,
you need to call set parameter initially,
just to define the parameter.
So we call it for the two parameters,
and that defines the parameter
and gives the initial value.
Okay, that takes care of parameters.
Why don't we go and look at
the signal processing code?
And that's in a different class.
It's our filter kernel class where
the actual signal processing goes on.
The process method is probably
the most important method there.
That's where we do the
interesting filtering.
And we're given a source buffer,
a destination buffer,
and a number of frames to process.
So, the first thing we do is we
get the two parameter values.
We do some kind of bounds
checking stuff here.
And then what we do is
given those parameters,
the cutoff frequency and resonance,
we need to calculate some internal
coefficients for our filter,
which is a biquad filter.
It's not, you don't have to
understand how that works.
But this is the method that we call
to calculate our internal coefficients
given the frequency and the resonance.
Once again,
the math isn't really that important
unless you're interested in that.
Finally, we've got the source buffer,
destination buffer,
number of frames to process.
All we're doing is going
through a loop here,
getting the input sample,
doing the filtering operation,
and writing the output to
the destination buffer.
I mentioned Audio Unit Reset,
and when the host calls Audio Unit Reset,
Our reset method is called,
and that's where we clear
out our filter state.
And as I said,
for a reverb or a delay effect,
you would clear out your
delay buffers at that point.
Um, finally in the code,
I'd like to go over quickly how, um,
How factory presets work.
So, we have two methods that I mentioned.
Get presets.
And this is what the host calls to get
a list of the available factory presets.
We just create a CFArray here
and we go through a loop and
append a structure to the array.
And what the structure looks like is
It's called AUPreset.
It's a structure called AUPreset.
And it's defined in
AudioUnitProperties.h.
It only has two member variables.
The preset number, just an integer,
and the name, which is a CFStringRef.
And that can be localized to a particular
language since it's a CFStringRef.
Okay, so here we're just defining
two factory presets.
And we're going to call the first one
Preset 1 and the second one Preset 2.
Of course, if you had a real effect,
interesting, like a reverb or something,
you could give those
names like Concert Hall,
Small Room, and stuff like that.
Okay,
so we're just returning a CFArray of
our list of factory presets.
That's the discovery mechanism.
When the host decides to
choose a particular preset,
we call the new factory preset set.
With an AU preset structure,
we get the preset number here,
first of all,
and we go through in a loop and we
find the one that matches the preset
number that they want selected.
And the way I've done it here
is I just have a simple switch
statement and I set the parameters
a particular way for preset one,
cutoff frequency is 200
and resonance is minus 5.
And for the second preset, preset two,
I give it cutoff
frequency of 1,000 and 10.
You don't have to implement
this with a switch statement.
You could use the chosen preset
number as an index into an array.
So that's pretty much all the
code that we're going to look at.
I want to show you how to
install the Audio Unit.
I mentioned that there are two
locations where you can install it.
The Audio Unit is built in the
build directory here of our project,
Filter Demo.
It's called FilterDemo.Component.
And I'm gonna put it in--
The user's home directory,
Bob Aaron in this case.
Library, Audio, Plugins, Components.
That's where it goes.
Copy it there.
Well, it's already there,
but I'll say replace.
Okay.
So we've installed it.
Now let's see if it
shows up in the system.
So I'm going to call up the, um,
the terminal here,
and we're going to use AUVAL to see
if the Audio Unit is on the system.
And the way to do that is
use the -A option with AUVAL.
And lo and behold, among all of these
Apple--built-in Apple Audio Units,
we see that ours shows up right
there with the name that we gave it.
Now I want to put this
Audio Unit through its paces.
I mentioned AUVALS being a validation
tool that puts the Audio Unit through
a kind of a torture test,
so let's actually do that.
Use the -v option for validation.
The component type is AUFX.
Subtype is FILT.
That's what we gave it.
and APPL, that's the manufacturer name.
Oh, it printed out quite
a lot of stuff there.
Let's go up and see what it did.
Okay.
First thing it does is it gives
you the name of the Audio Unit,
the version number,
and tells you how long it
takes to open your Audio Unit.
And then it gives you some
information about the stream
format for the input and output.
And the stream format is two channels,
44 kilohertz, linear PCM, 32-bit.
It validates some of the built-in
properties which are mostly taken
care of for you in the base classes.
and AU Effect Base also takes
care of some of this other stuff.
Actually, if you look more closely
in the filter.cpp file,
you'll see that we support the
latency property tail time.
So here it's telling us information about
custom views that Audio Unit supports.
Zero Carbon views supported,
so there are no custom Carbon views,
but there's one Cocoa view
that's supported.
Here it tells us information
about presets that we have.
So we have our preset 1 and preset 2.
Further on it talks about the
parameters where it gives us information
about the unit type and minimum,
max, default value and so on and
the flags that we gave it.
So, AUVAL is actually a useful
tool to see if we've published
our parameters correctly or,
you know, with all this information
that we're getting,
we can practically tell almost
everything about the Audio Unit.
So, we can tell if we're doing things
correctly in our code just by using
AUVAL before we even run it in a host.
So after the parameters,
it checks the channel handling.
And being subclass of AU Effect Base,
it handles end-to-end processing,
as I mentioned.
So it should be able
to handle one-to-one,
that's mono.
Stereo Processing, 4-4 channels, 5-5,
6-6, 8-8, AUVAL checks all of those.
Um, it's testing rendering at various
sample rates and processing
various numbers of frames.
At the very bottom here, it says,
"AU Validation Succeeded," and
that's the message that you
want to see on your Audio Unit,
because some hosts actually require
that validation succeeds or they
won't even be allowed to run.
So...
That's pretty much it for building
Audio Unit and validating it and so on.
I'd like to call Michael Hopkins up
and he's going to show you how to make
a nice Cocoa view for the Audio Unit.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you very much Chris.
Could we go back to slides please?
As Chris showed you,
when you create an Audio Unit and
load it in a host such as AU Lab,
you're already provided
with a generic view.
But there are many rationales for
going one step beyond that and
creating your own custom view.
For example,
there may be some unwanted detail
that you want to hide for your user,
or you may just want to customize the
order that your parameters appear in.
Or you have the flexibility to
choose the user interface element
that you use to represent that,
for example, a knob instead of just the
slider and text field that
you get with the generic view.
Additionally,
you have the flexibility to provide
the appropriate amount of eye candy.
And you can also provide a
branding experience to your user
so that if you are creating many
different types of Audio Units,
you can use common interface
elements and graphics to give a
uniform look to all of your plugins.
But perhaps the best way to make this
point is to look at what you get with
our filter demo in the generic view.
And you can see that the filter
demo is a little bit more
complex than the generic view.
And compare that to the custom view that
we're going to be developing here today.
And as you can see here,
the custom view shows the same amount
of information as the generic view,
but we're also adding this beautiful
display of the response curve.
And instead of just showing
you a picture of this,
let me go ahead and run a demo to
show you how that works in real time.
So if I could switch to demo station two,
please.
I'm going to launch the
same AU Lab document that
Chris showed you earlier.
And as you recall, there was a generic
view for the Audio Unit.
I'm going to open a second
view on the same Audio Unit,
which is our custom view.
And this resizes in the same
manner that the generic view does,
except that curve updates in real time.
And I can go ahead and change
the values of these parameters by
typing in a text field directly,
which upstates the graph, as you can see.
Or I can click and drag in that view to
move the response curve in real time.
You'll also notice that if I go to
the generic view and I change one
of the parameters in that view,
that is updating my custom
view at the same time.
And this is occurring because our
generic view is changing the value of
that parameter in the Audio Unit and
then sending a notification that
that parameter value has changed.
Our custom view listens for that
notification and in response to that,
updates its curve.
And that also will occur with
the resonance parameter too.
And of course,
it's our responsibility when
we write our custom view to do
the same thing so that when we
update the curve in our custom UI,
that we send a notification that
those parameters are changing
so the custom view can update
its view of that data as well.
And you'll notice one
other thing occurring here,
and that's that the cutoff
frequency and resonance parameters
are highlighted in blue.
And this is because our custom view is
changing the value of that parameter.
And that's because our custom view is
sending what's known as a begin gesture.
And Hosts use this for automation,
but the generic view is using that to
highlight which parameters are changing.
And you'll notice both
parameters are highlighted,
and that's because we have a
two-dimensional view that's capable of
updating both of those at the same time.
And when we release the mouse,
we send what's known as an
end gesture notification,
indicating that we're no
longer editing that parameter.
Now let's go ahead and listen to that.
As I change the cutoff frequency,
we can hear the change in the audio,
but we also have this beautiful
curve that is really giving us
a visual representation of what
that sound is going to sound like.
So this really gives the user
a lot of extra information
than just a generic view.
OK, could I switch back to slides,
please?
So now let's take a look at how
the view that we are writing fits
into the audio unit structure.
First of all,
views can be written using either
the Carbon or the Cocoa API.
That interface could be
created programmatically,
or loaded via a NibFile.
In either case,
the view is retrieved directly from
the audio unit via a get property call.
And you see the two
identifiers there on the slide,
whether using Carbon or Cocoa.
Regardless of which API you use,
the host will always provide
that window context for you.
And if you're a Carbon view,
you're a control ref and
you'll be embedded in that
host in the main control,
in the root control.
If you're a Carbon view,
your view is an NSView derivative
class and you'll be placed in
the content pane of that window.
Drawing is up to you.
You have an open canvas to do whatever
you want in the API that's most
appropriate for your type of view.
And the same thing goes
with event handling.
If you're a Carbon view,
you'll use the Carbon event manager.
And if you're a Cocoa view,
instead you use the methods
in NSView that are inherited
from the NSResponder class.
So I'm not going to cover any
of these items anymore in the
remainder of my presentation since
these are merely API specific.
Instead,
I'd like to concentrate on those unique
pieces that you'll need to write in
order to interface with the Audio Unit.
So let's take a look at that now.
As you'll recall,
Chris mentioned that the Audio Unit is
contained in a component file.
And inside that component
is the filter bundle.
And that is where the Cocoa View resides.
So let's focus on that right now.
Inside that bundle,
similar to the component,
is an Info.plist that
defines the main class name,
the name of the nib,
and the name of the bundle,
and also provides a bundle identifier.
There's a Mac OS directory where your
Cocoa View executable code lives,
and a resources directory where
you'll find all the localized
resources used by your view,
which in this case is a nib file.
We also have added a TIFF file
that we use as a background image.
Okay, now let's look at what the host
does when it loads a CocoaView.
In this case,
it's going to call the getProperty
method with a CocoaUI identifier.
And this method,
or this call returns a structure
that specifies first a URL to
the location of the bundle,
and then a string,
which is the name of that main class.
And the bundle location is a URL to the
location that's within the component.
Now we're going to go ahead and look
at the source code in the filter class
that's required to support that property.
And for the remainder of my presentation,
I'm going to be showing
that code in slides.
But you'll notice that there's an icon at
the bottom of the slide indicating which
source file that code is contained in.
And I encourage you to,
at your leisure later on,
take a look and go through
that code in more detail,
because some of it's pretty interesting.
To implement the get property info call,
we specify that that
property is not writable.
And then we also specify the size
of that structure and return it.
To implement the Get Property call,
we first need to provide the
location or URL of that bundle,
which we do by getting the bundle
with the component identifier.
And then we, further on down in the code,
find the Cocoa View bundle within
that component and get the URL for it.
Once we have that URL,
we take the name of the class in the URL,
copy it into the structure,
and then return that information.
Okay,
when the host is loading that bundle,
it's going to be loading first the
main class to instantiate that.
And there are a few rules about the way
that main class needs to be structured.
The first is that that bundle's
principal class needs to implement
the AU Cocoa UI-based protocol.
And this protocol specifies that
that view class is a factory method
that returns an NSView subclass
via this specific property
method you'll see on the slide,
which is the UI view for
Audio Unit with size.
That method will take
an Audio Unit parameter,
store it in the view along
with a suggested size,
and then return a view with that
that implements that protocol.
If you're using a nib file
like we are in the example,
you need to make sure that the owner
of that nib file is this factory class.
Okay, now I'd like to talk a little
bit about communication between
the Audio Unit and its view.
These two objects are really
separate entities and as such you
need to be really careful because
they may not necessarily even be
living in the same address space.
So you want to make sure that you
don't do things like pass pointers
back and forth or other skankiness.
Instead,
we recommend that you use a discrete way
of communicating with the Audio Unit that
Chris previously discussed,
which is via the parameters
and the properties.
When the view is first loaded,
it needs to know what to display
and it does that simply by getting
the current parameter values
via Audio Unit Get Parameter.
Once it's updated that information,
if the user changes the user interface,
it needs to notify the Audio Unit that
that value has changed,
which it does simply by setting
the value of that same parameter.
And the same goes if it's
using any custom property.
Now we also saw in the demo earlier
that our custom view needs to
update its state if another object,
such as another view,
changes the value of that property.
And there's a notification mechanism
built into Core Audio called
the AU Event Listener.
And this mechanism will inform
the Audio Unit that the value
of that property is changing.
And this mechanism will inform
our view of any parameter
changes or property changes.
This mechanism is thread safe,
allows us to do things like control
the granularity of the notifications.
And this mechanism is used
both by hosts and by views.
Let's look at the API now
in a little bit more detail.
When we create a listener or
register that we're interested in
listening to a specific parameter,
we can use the AU Event Listener
to create a function.
And similarly,
when we're no longer interested,
we dispose of that event listener.
Once we've created that listener,
we need to specify all the types of
events that our view is interested
in receiving for each parameter.
So if we're interested
in the value change,
that's a specific event type
that we register interest in by
using AU EventListener@EventType.
And similarly,
we can remove interest in events as well.
Okay, when a listener notifies us that a
particular parameter has changed,
we get notified.
And that occurs via the notification
mechanism that I previously talked about.
It's our responsibility as a view,
however, to also make sure that we're
doing notification of listeners
whenever we change our values.
And that's done by calling
AU Event Listener Notify.
And there's also a convenience
method that's provided
specifically for parameters.
And this will not only set the value
of the parameter in the Audio Unit,
but it also will perform
the same notification.
And we'll see this in the code that
I'm about to go over in a little bit.
Now I'd like to take a look at the view
code that's in our filter demo project.
And this filter demo project was
created with the Audio Unit template.
And so there were a couple of minor
housekeeping details that we had to
do in order to prepare that project
before we started our development.
The first thing we did is we went
through all the source files and
we renamed them to unique names to
make sure that we didn't have any
namespace collisions with other classes
that were based on this template.
We additionally updated the
Cocoa UI Xcode target to
change the name of the bundle,
the identifier of the nib, excuse me,
the identifier of the bundle,
the nib name,
and also to specify the principal class.
And then we added that image
resource to our project as well.
So we've done all this for you in
the project that's on your desk.
When we updated the Cocoa UI,
we went into Xcode,
clicked on that target,
went to the properties tab,
and then specified the identifier class
name and then file in that dialog.
Once that is completed
and we renamed our class,
we need to make sure that we
update our nib file so that the
interface builder matches as well.
And I'm going to show an example of
how we changed the principal class,
which as you recall is our factory class.
First, I went into that nib file,
clicked on the file zone or object,
then opened the inspector,
went to the custom class tab,
and changed that class to
our view factory class.
For the demo, we did the same thing for
the view class as well.
The template provides us with
a default user interface.
That's not really useful for
our particular audio unit,
so we removed that information
and replaced it with a user
interface that is more appropriate,
which in this case was a parameter
text field for the cutoff frequency
parameter and a resonance text field.
Additionally, we created a generic,
excuse me,
a custom view in the center for
displaying our frequency curve.
Now I'd like to take a look at
the steps that occur when the host
loads our view for the first time.
The host initially gets the view
by calling Audio Unit getProperty.
It then gets back the bundle
URL and the main class name,
loads the bundle,
and instantiates that class.
Once that class is instantiated,
it calls the method in the
protocol UIViewForAudiUnitWithSize,
which will then load the nib file,
initialize the view,
create and initialize the view,
and then it also returns the view.
In the process of creating that view,
it will call the method in our code,
setAU, which caches the Audio Unit,
creates and adds any listeners
that we need for parameters.
and then returns.
So now let's go ahead and take
a look directly in the code.
As I mentioned earlier,
our first step is to create a
listener for those parameters that
we're interested in knowing about.
This is done directly from the
setAU method I just showed you.
And here we're registering a specific
dispatcher method that will be the main
funnel for all event notifications.
So anytime a parameter changes,
that method will be called.
We specify the run loop and
the mode so we don't have to
worry about threading issues.
And then set up some
granularity and interval values.
Our first step is to add a listener
to the cutoff frequency parameter.
So we set up that parameter and then
specify the begin parameter change
gesture event type and then call au event
listener at event type to register that
we're interested in that specific event.
And similarly,
we do the same thing for the end change
gesture and the value change event.
Our Event Dispatcher call,
which we registered previously,
simply calls through to a Cocoa method,
which we will then handle
those events directly.
And that method, first of all,
looks at the event type.
And if the type is a value change,
we need to make sure that
we then update our UI.
And we do that by,
if it's a cutoff frequency parameter,
setting the float value of that field
to the parameter value that we get.
Additionally,
we need to tell the graph to update its
view as well for the frequency change.
Resonance is handled in
exactly the same way,
except we need to update a different
text field and notify the graph that
the resonance parameter has changed,
passing the value in there.
Handling the begin gesture is
done in exactly the same spot.
As you recall from the demonstration,
we need to make sure that we highlight
our crosshair to indicate that that
parameter value is being changed in
a view other than our custom view.
And we do that simply by telling
the graph view to update its state.
And we handle the end parameter
change gesture the same way.
Okay, that was quite a bit of code,
but we only have a little bit more to do.
Primarily,
now we need to make sure that we
can update the Audio Unit when the
user has changed our user interface,
as opposed to changing our user interface
to reflect external value changes.
So the user can interact with
our interface in two main ways:
directly changing a text field value,
as I showed in my demo,
or clicking and dragging in our graphs.
So to handle the first
type of interaction,
we've registered a method
that gets called via an
IB action in Interface Builder.
And here we simply need to get the
text value that's in our interface
and call au_parameter_set to
not only set the value of the
Audio Unit for that parameter,
but also to notify any
listeners that that's occurred.
For our custom view,
we are doing the same exact thing,
but we have the capability of handling
two different parameters at a time,
so we need to call
AU parameter set on both.
Otherwise, the code's the same.
When the user has clicked in our view,
we need to make sure that we
notify any other listeners
that a gesture has occurred.
And we do that by first
creating a parameter,
and then setting the event type,
begin parameter, change gesture,
and then notifying other
listeners that that has occurred.
We do the same thing for
the resonance parameter.
End-to-end gesture is
handled the same way,
except the event type is different.
Okay, right now we're almost finished.
Our UI really can handle a lot of stuff.
We can handle parameter changes that are
coming from other notification sources,
as well as changes that are done
directly in our user interface
via a text field change or via
interaction with our graph view.
But we're really not quite there yet.
We don't have the capacity to draw
that beautiful curve because we
don't have access to that data.
That data is generated in the Audio Unit.
So how do we go from this view--
to one that does have that information.
Well, Chris is fortunately going to come
up and get us out of our dilemma.
So Chris?
So what we have here basically is
a curve that depends on both the
cutoff frequency and the resonance.
So if you drag that control point around,
of course,
the shape of the curve will change.
So we need to find out what the
curve is for a specific value of
cutoff frequency and resonance.
And the Audio Unit is the one that
knows what that curve looks like.
And the view has to ask
the Audio Unit about that.
Basically, the curve is just a
function of the frequency.
It's a response value.
Here it's plotted on a decibel scale.
And the way that the view is going
to get that information from the
Audio Unit is by using a custom property.
Now, properties are basically just a
general way of passing information
back and forth between an
Audio Unit and a host or a view.
And the information is passed
with a void star pointer,
so it can point to any type of data,
arbitrary data, and a length parameter,
so it can be arbitrarily long or short.
Inside of the Audio Unit,
there are two basic methods that
we're going to be interested in today,
the Get Property Info and Get Property.
And it's probably easier
just to look at the code,
the next code.
So if we could go to the demo machine,
please.
Okay.
Let's have a look at the property
stuff here in our filter class.
So, first of all, get property info.
We're giving information about a custom
property that we're going to define
called Filter Frequency Response.
That's just an integer.
It's typed after Audio Unit Property ID.
Let's see how we find that.
We've given it a value of 65,536.
Custom properties must have a value of
64,000 or greater because values below
that are reserved for Apple's use.
So, we've defined a property ID,
and while we're in this file,
why don't we just have a
look at this structure here.
I've defined a structure
called Frequency Response,
which has two members,
the frequency and the magnitude response
that corresponds to that frequency.
So, what's going to happen is
the view is going to pass an
array of these structures,
filling out all of the frequency
values that it's interested in,
from the low frequencies
up to the high frequencies.
And then the Audio Unit is going
to calculate the magnitude response
at that particular frequency value.
And we're going to pass an array of 512,
size of 512, so 512 of these structures.
And by the way,
this header file that we're looking at,
this is a header file that's shared
by the UI and the Audio Unit.
They both build off of this header file.
There's no code being shared.
It's just definitions.
Okay, so we return the size
of the property here.
It's not a writable property.
It's just a readable property.
And the size of the property is
the number of frequency responses,
which we saw was 512.
It's an array, size 512,
times the size of the structure.
Okay?
The second method
To actually get the property information
is the get property method and well
right here we have the Cocoa UI property
which Michael ran you through.
That gets the information about
the Cocoa view but the one
we really care about is the
The new custom property
that we've defined,
the filter frequency response property.
One of the first things that we
do is we check to make sure that
the Audio Unit is initialized,
because in this particular case,
we require that the
AU kernel-based subclass,
the filter kernel, be available.
And that happens at initialization time.
So if somebody tries to call for this
property when it's not initialized,
then we return this error.
And the custom view will check for that.
And if it gets an error back,
it won't attempt to display a curve.
So, as I said,
the information for a property is
passed through a void star pointer,
and that's one of the arguments
to our function right here.
And,
Okay.
And what we do is we're -- I'm casting
that to a pointer to our structure,
our frequency response structure
that we saw has two member variables.
And basically what we're going to do is
we're just going to go through in a loop.
512 times 'cause that's
the size of the array.
Um, we're gonna get the frequency
that-- that Michael has asked
about and wants to display.
And then we're gonna ask
the signal processing code,
which happens inside of
the-- the filter kernel,
and call its get
frequency response method,
asking it what the response is
for that particular frequency.
And then we're gonna
put the result in the,
um, member variable-- the
magnitude member variable.
Let's just have a really quick
look at the get frequency response
method to see what the signal
processing code does there.
Um, so it's given the frequency.
It gets the sample rate,
and then it does some
mathematics that's--that's
particular to a biquad filter,
which isn't-- you don't
have to understand that.
The point is, is that it calculates, uh,
response value and returns that value.
And after doing that 512 times, um,
it's gonna get the sample rate.
And then it does some mathematics
that's particular to a biquad filter,
which isn't-- you don't
have to understand that.
The point is, is that it calculates, uh,
response value and returns that value.
And after doing that 512 times,
in this loop, it returns,
and Michael now knows what
the curve should look like.
So, lastly,
Michael is going to take you through a
little bit about how that's displayed.
Michael Hopkins: Thank you, Chris.
Can we go back to slides, please?
So the user interface is
responsible for a couple of things.
Firstly, it actually holds that frequency
response data and therefore
needs to allocate the memory,
which we do in the source
code via calling malloc.
Once it's been allocated in the
setAU method that we saw earlier,
we initialize the data with the
frequency values for each pixel
location where we need to be able to
draw a corresponding decibel value.
Once we have initialized that data,
we can then retrieve the frequency
response curve from the Audio Unit by
calling AudioUnit.getProperty.
And then finally, we can draw that curve.
So let's take a look at the code there.
Again, that's all on your CD,
so I encourage you to
take a look at it later.
The initialization occurs exactly once,
when the Audio Unit is initialized.
It also can occur when
the window changes size,
but primarily that data is very static.
And we don't need to update
it every time we redraw.
So we do a little bit of math to
calculate those pixels and the
values that we need to display.
And then we have a loop very similar
to what you just saw in Chris's code,
where we compute the frequency value
for each of our pixel locations
and stick that in the structure.
here.
Then we need to retrieve that data every
time we're ready to plot our curve.
And that occurs right in our
event listener funnel where
our notifications are handled.
And that's because every time
we get a parameter value change,
we then need to say, hey, Audio Unit,
please give me the new curve
data because I need to redraw.
And we do that by calling
Audio Unit get property.
Once we've had that
information filled out,
we can then ask the
GraphView to plot that curve.
And that's pretty much
all there is to it.
So there are a couple of other
sessions that are occurring here
at the conference that I encourage
you to go to if you have a chance.
There's an excellent session immediately
following this one on 3D audio,
and there's a bunch of
really great demos there,
so I encourage that.
I also would like to stress our lab
that's occurring tomorrow at noon.
And any of you that have any questions
about Audio Units or if you've had a
chance to go through that sample code
and would like to get more information,
we'll help you out with that.
Also, during the beer bash,
we have a special event,
which is our Plug Fest,
and that occurs at 6:00 on Thursday,
so please come to that.
And there's a lot of excellent resources
out there for people such as Bill Stort,
who will be coming up in
a second to do the Q&A.
But I also have a couple of
minor tips for you when you're
developing your own Audio Unit.
First, make sure that you use those Xcode
Audio Unit templates that we ship.
You can download those from the ADC site.
Make sure you register your
manufacturer code with us.
Please use AUVAL to validate
your Audio Unit and make sure
that you catch all your problems.
And also make sure that
you make use of AULAB,
which is in Developer Applications Audio,
to test your Audio Unit view.